README.md, before:

# MACVIN

**MACVIN** is a Python project built **uv** for orchestrating and running MACVIN data pipelines in a clean, reproducible way.

The project uses:

* **uv** for fast, reproducible dependency management
* A modern **`src/` layout**

# Data organsisation
The list of cruises are described here:
[cruise list](cruises.csv)

| Column              | Description                                                               |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| cruiseseries        | Keyword for the dta collection                                            |
| year                | Year of cruise                                                            |
| cruise              | ID composed of 'S' + Cruise code + '_P' + Platform name + '_' + Call sign |
| range               | Range in meters for automated processing                                  |
| shipname            | Name of the vessel                                                        |
| RAW_files           | The path to the raw acoustic data                                         |
| Original_WORK_files | Path to the orginal work files (if exist)                                 |
| WS_WORK_files       | LSSS files generated at the workshop                                      |
| koronaprocessing    | Path to the predictions from the Korona categorization module             |

## Processed data

The processing flow reads the raw acoustic data and preprocess the data using three different steps, then applied Rolf's acosutic target classification (ATC) model. Finally the preprocessed data are combined with ATC annotations and the luf file is written.

These steps are 

| Processing step       | Name                      | Description                                                            |
|-----------------------|---------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| preprocessing         | korona_noisefiltering     | Applies noise filtering on raw data and cnvert to netcdf               |
| preprocessing         | korona-preprocessing      | Conversion of raw data to netcdf                                       |
| preprocessing         | korona-datacompression    | Algorithm to compress raw used on Sounder and then converted to Netcdf |
| target-classification | mackerel-korneliussen2016 | ATC step                                                               |
| reportgeneration      | reportgeneration-zarr     | Integration step                                                       |


The processed data are stored under `$PROCESSED=/data/s3/MACWIN-scratch/silver/{$CRUISE}/`, where `$CRUISE` is 
the `cruise` column in [cruise list](cruises.csv).

The results for each task are located in:
```
/data/s3/MACWIN-scratch/silver/{$CRUISE}/
└── EK
    ├── PREPROCESSING
    │   ├── korona_datacompression
    │   ├── korona_noisefiltering
    │   └── korona_preprocessing
    ├── QUALITY_CONTROL
    │   └── korona_datacompression
    ├── REPORTS
    │   ├── korona_datacompression
    │   ├── korona_noisefiltering
    │   └── korona_preprocessing
    └── TARGET_CLASSIFICATION
        └── korona_noisefiltering
```

---

## 🚀 Features

* Reproducible environments via `uv.lock`
* Console scripts for running pipelines
* Clean separation of code, tests, and configuration

---

## 📁 Project structure

```
MACVIN/
├── pyproject.toml
├── uv.lock
├── README.md
├── src/
│   └── macvin/
│       ├── __init__.py
│       ├── pipeline.py
│       └── test.py
└── tests/
    └── test_pipeline.py
```


# Processing

The project requires acces to these docker containers:

```bash
acoustic-ek-reportgeneration-zarr:latest
acoustic-ek-target_classification-mackerel-korneliussen2016:latest
acoustic-ek_preprocessing_korona-datacompression_blueinsight:local
acoustic-ek_preprocessing_korona-noisefiltering_blueinsight:local
acoustic-ek_preprocessing_korona-preprocessing_blueinsight:local
```

## Acoustic ek scripts

Build the mackerel classifier and preprocessor scripts docker images:
```bash
git clone git@git.imr.no:crimac-wp4-machine-learning/CRIMAC-acoustic-ek
make <image name>
```

## Report generation
Build first the report generator as a docker image:
```bash
git clone git@git.imr.no:crimac-wp4-machine-learning/CRIMAC-reportgeneration-zarr.git
docker build --build-arg=commit_sha=$(git rev-parse HEAD) --build-arg=version_number=$(git describe --tags) --tag acoustic-ek-reportgeneration-zarr .
```


---

## 🧰 Requirements

* Python **3.10**
* [`uv`](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)

Install `uv` if needed:

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

---

## ⚙️ Setup

### 1️⃣ Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilsolav/MACVIN
cd MACVIN
```

### 2️⃣ Sync the environment

```bash
uv sync
```

This installs:

* All dependencies
* The `macvin` package itself (editable install)

---

---

## ▶️ Running the pipeline

Console scripts are used for data procesing. The main pipeline:

```bash
uv run macvin-pipeline
```

Test the pipeline on a test data set:

```bash
uv run macvin-test
```

Get the data overview:

```bash
uv run macvin-status
```

Run only report generator:

```bash
uv run macvin-reports
```

Flow runs will appear in the rotating `macvin.log` file.

---

## 🧪 Running tests

```bash
uv run pytest
```

---

## 🛠 Development workflow

Common commands:

```bash
uv add <package>        # add dependency
uv add --dev <package> # add dev dependency
uv sync                # sync environment
uv run <command>       # run inside uv env
```

---

## 📦 Packaging details

This project uses a `src/` layout and is configured as a packaged project:

```toml
[tool.uv]
package = true
```

Console scripts are defined in `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[project.scripts]
macvin-pipeline = "macvin.pipeline:main"
macvin-test = "macvin.test:main"
```

---


## 📖 Further reading

* uv documentation: [https://github.com/astral-sh/uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)

---

Commit message:

Updated the README and use the OK flag to not rerun processing if already ok.

README.md, after:

# MACVIN

**MACVIN** is a Python project built **uv** for orchestrating and running MACVIN data pipelines in a clean, reproducible way.

The project uses:

* **uv** for fast, reproducible dependency management
* A modern **`src/` layout**

# Data organsisation
The list of cruises are described here:
[cruise list](cruises.csv)

| Column              | Description                                                               |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| cruiseseries        | Keyword for the dta collection                                            |
| year                | Year of cruise                                                            |
| cruise              | ID composed of 'S' + Cruise code + '_P' + Platform name + '_' + Call sign |
| range               | Range in meters for automated processing                                  |
| shipname            | Name of the vessel                                                        |
| RAW_files           | The path to the raw acoustic data                                         |
| Original_WORK_files | Path to the orginal work files (if exist)                                 |
| WS_WORK_files       | LSSS files generated at the workshop                                      |
| koronaprocessing    | Path to the predictions from the Korona categorization module             |

## Processed data

The processing flow reads the raw acoustic data and preprocess the data using three different steps, then applied Rolf's acosutic target classification (ATC) model. Finally the preprocessed data are combined with ATC annotations and the luf file is written.

These steps are 

| Processing step       | Name                      | Description                                                            |
|-----------------------|---------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| preprocessing         | korona_noisefiltering     | Applies noise filtering on raw data and cnvert to netcdf               |
| preprocessing         | korona-preprocessing      | Conversion of raw data to netcdf                                       |
| preprocessing         | korona-datacompression    | Algorithm to compress raw used on Sounder and then converted to Netcdf |
| target-classification | mackerel-korneliussen2016 | ATC step                                                               |
| reportgeneration      | reportgeneration-zarr     | Integration step                                                       |


The processed data are stored under `$PROCESSED=/data/s3/MACWIN-scratch/silver/{$CRUISE}/`, where `$CRUISE` is 
the `cruise` column in [cruise list](cruises.csv).

The results for each task are located in:
```
/data/s3/MACWIN-scratch/silver/{$CRUISE}/
└── EK
    ├── PREPROCESSING
    │   ├── korona_datacompression
    │   ├── korona_noisefiltering
    │   └── korona_preprocessing
    ├── QUALITY_CONTROL
    │   └── korona_datacompression
    ├── REPORTS
    │   ├── korona_datacompression
    │   ├── korona_noisefiltering
    │   └── korona_preprocessing
    └── TARGET_CLASSIFICATION
        └── korona_noisefiltering
```

---

## 🚀 Features

* Reproducible environments via `uv.lock`
* Console scripts for running pipelines
* Clean separation of code, tests, and configuration

---

## 📁 Project structure

```
MACVIN/
├── pyproject.toml
├── uv.lock
├── README.md
├── src/
│   └── macvin/
│       ├── __init__.py
│       ├── pipeline.py
│       └── test.py
└── tests/
    └── test_pipeline.py
```


# Processing

The project requires acces to these docker containers:

```bash
acoustic-ek-reportgeneration-zarr:latest
acoustic-ek-target_classification-mackerel-korneliussen2016:latest
acoustic-ek_preprocessing_korona-datacompression_blueinsight:local
acoustic-ek_preprocessing_korona-noisefiltering_blueinsight:local
acoustic-ek_preprocessing_korona-preprocessing_blueinsight:local
```

## Acoustic ek scripts

Build the mackerel classifier and preprocessor scripts docker images:
```bash
git clone git@git.imr.no:crimac-wp4-machine-learning/CRIMAC-acoustic-ek
make <image name>
```

## Report generation
Build first the report generator as a docker image:
```bash
git clone git@git.imr.no:crimac-wp4-machine-learning/CRIMAC-reportgeneration-zarr.git
docker build --build-arg=commit_sha=$(git rev-parse HEAD) --build-arg=version_number=$(git describe --tags) --tag acoustic-ek-reportgeneration-zarr .
```


---

## 🧰 Requirements

* Python **3.10**
* [`uv`](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)

Install `uv` if needed:

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

---

## ⚙️ Setup

### 1️⃣ Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilsolav/MACVIN
cd MACVIN
```

### 2️⃣ Sync the environment

```bash
uv sync
```

This installs:

* All dependencies
* The `macvin` package itself (editable install)

---

---

## ▶️ Running the pipeline

Console scripts are used for data procesing. Flow runs will appear in the rotating `macvin.log` file.

### macvin-pipeline

The main pipeline. Cruises that are marked as OK in the status column in [cruise list](cruises.csv) will not be rerun. The script is started by:

```bash
uv run macvin-pipeline
```

Use the dry run option for testing without running the docker steps:
```bash
uv run macvin-pipeline  --dry-run
```

### macvin-test

Run the pipeline on a test data set to test that the processing works:

```bash
uv run macvin-test
```

### macvin-status

Run this to get data and processing status:

```bash
uv run macvin-status
```

Run only report generator:

```bash
uv run macvin-reports
```


---

## 🧪 Running tests

```bash
uv run pytest
```

---

## 🛠 Development workflow

Common commands:

```bash
uv add <package>        # add dependency
uv add --dev <package> # add dev dependency
uv sync                # sync environment
uv run <command>       # run inside uv env
```

---

## 📦 Packaging details

This project uses a `src/` layout and is configured as a packaged project:

```toml
[tool.uv]
package = true
```

Console scripts are defined in `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[project.scripts]
macvin-pipeline = "macvin.pipeline:main"
macvin-test = "macvin.test:main"
```

---


## 📖 Further reading

* uv documentation: [https://github.com/astral-sh/uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)

---
